How much is a particualr human worth? Can I justify eating babies? What specifically is the replacement cost of a particular person?


outsider view
	info wanted:
		health
		age, 
		demographics about earnings, health risk, injury risk
	might need to include emotioinal value to others

inside view
	normally I'd not give much thought to the inside view, but retirement is hard to justify without it.
	if I knew that I'd get dumped in the ocean as soon as I retired, I'd not be saving for it or looking forward to it. Basically 
	I demonstrate that I value my retired life by saving money so that I can enjoy those years in the future.
	This might be the human enjoyment years way of counting rather than the replacement cost way of counting.

replacement cost of human
	low at birth, (pregnancy time, medical costs of parents, initial equipment purchases)
		could start negative if starting life ill or in a bad family situation
	increasing with tutoring (parents, daycare, school), food
	can drop quickly with serious illness, injury, trauma, dropping out of education system w/o skills to succeed, bad habits (gang, drugs) Negative jumps.
		can potentially recover from zero or negative value - likelyhood of recovery would need to be baked in to begin with. Positive jumps.
		the potential for getting ill or traumatized should be built in as well, then the resolution of the risk into an actual problem causes the jump.
	peaks near end of education for people who get dead end jobs. They'll get better at working, but it only takes a few days to learn how to push a lever, then there is just waiting for death.
	potentially continues to rise for people who get on a career ladder path, essentially becuase education is increasing, however, useful years of labor fight any gains.
	value of jobs? Is a sleazeball valuable, even if they're paid reasonably well?
		some social cancers aren't illegal but are still cancers. Clipboard people.
	not necessarily zero at retirement, but they'd have to be generating enough good to justify any social benefits they're drawing on a year to year basis.
	presumably average replacement cost <= (average lifetime earnings + unpaid labor value)?
	could say that some people could only be replaced by throwing 40 people into the education system and seeing who makes it to the top - a primo engineer may be
		worth more than the cost of it's education alone - it may take training 40 engineers to generate one primo engineer, in which case most of us are just
		byproducts of the elite generation process. Probably tied up in the risk probabilities seen in early life. So a primo engineer could potentially
		see a gigantic jump in replacement cost when their genius is identified, while the rest of us drop rather quicklky when our average or below-avergeness
		is identified.
	selecting a useless degree could also cause a value decline beginning during the education as the odds of becoming a success decline
	people who are severely negative in middle age could come up towards zero as they age out of crime and have less time to draw on public resources

Best way to display seems to be to have a plot with value on Y, time on X with lots of threads for various people. Perhaps a gradient with colors representing a probability of occurance. Could generate vertical time slices that give the distribution of value. Horizontal value slices seem less useful.

	